# Week 1 Reflection (Monday 3/3/25)

<p>I'm not sure what exactly I was expecting upon entering this unit. I knew that we would be exploring what constitutes Digital Writing, the boundaries and possibilities that this form holds for writing, how it intersects with other forms of writing (such as Poetry, Fiction, Non-Fiction and Screenwriting). I knew there would be some coding involved in this course, but I wasn't expecting us to spend the entire first day doing so through GitHub and Glitch. Though I'm not complaining.</p>
<p>It's a welcome suprise to be able to apply the basic coding skills that I learnt during high school while undertaking subjects in game and website coding, and it illustrates to me that these skills can be applied to my writing practice in ways I hadn't previously considered. Last year, during Art Writing, I had attempted to include a hyperlink in my non-fiction writing piece that was supposed to be published digitially, but these plans fell through unfortunately. On top of this, I never quite worked out how to code this inclusion into my text properly, having only worked out how to include a hyperlink, but not how to achieve the creative effect I was looking for. Since this piece of writing has now been left on the back burner, I'm now wondering if I can take the skills I learn from this unit and revive this work. </p>
<p>I still have questions regarding Digital Writing however, such as what qualifies (or disqualifies) a piece of writing from being considered digital? Where are the boundary lines drawn for an interactive website/story and a "game", and what seperates actual games (like visual novels and rpgs) from digital writing? Is there a difference between independantly made writen works and those constructed, written and coded by multiple people or organisations? </p>
<p>Nonetheless, I'm looking forward to what new possibilities this course will unveil.</p>

# Week 1 Reading Reflection

<p>Due to an issue I had with accessing the readings in Week 1, I wasn't able to respond to them in the prior reflection as I didn't know they existed during that time. Therefore, I am writing this amendment in Week 3 to rectify this issue.</p>
<p>The Week 1 readings were very dense to get through on first reading, I felt that i lacked a basis for understanding the content, the terms, and references that were being made in the four texts, all while trying to solve the question of what "E-Literature" even is? It felt as if I was stepping into an exclusive subculture that relied on its own internal knowledge and understanding, a "coterie" as Kathi Inman points out, but one that is becoming more mainstream and accessible. According to Katherine's essay "Electronic Literature: What Is It?", "early works [of E-Literature] tended to be blocks of text... with limited graphics, animation, colors and sound" (2007), which she classifies as the "first generation" of E-Literature. The second generation made much greater use of the "multi-modal capabilities of the web" (2007), moving away from basic coding and design and pushing the boundaries of its interface.</p>
<p>It seems the third generation represents this present moment, as digital writers make use of the technologies available to them to push the boundaries of literature and explore new forms. Though based on Kathi Inman's "Decolonize’ E-Literature? On Weeding the E-Lit Garden" (2020), it would seem there is some pushback to new forms of supposed E-Literature found on social media platforms, as well as a counter push to accept the transformation of E-Literature from a insular coterie to a expanded "field", or to "decolonize" the scene from mainstream elements (Facebook, Amazon, Google, Apple) as Kathi Inman suggests.</p>
<p>The question I'm left with is where are we positioned within this discourse, as emerging writers now learning of and experimenting in the field of E-Literature? Learning how to code has become more assessible thanks to ChatGPT and the various resources that reduce the barrier to entry, E-Literature now contains much more than just stories told through hyperlinks and code on a webpage and the possibilities for what form E-Lit can take seem endless. With E-Literature now being more accessible than ever before, does that position us as outsiders entering this field, unaware of the prior history of the field, or the next (third) generation that will push the form into new territories as technology continues to develop?</p>

# Week 3 Experiments (N+7)

Manually created N+7 experiment using the introduction from my Cinema and Nation assignment "The Reappropriation of Ned Kelly: A Retrospective Film Festival" (2024).

Terms were taken from a Third Editin Heinemann Australian Dictionary (1987), owned by my mum.

## Original text:

### The Reappropriation of Ned Kelly: A Retrospective Film Festival

Since his death in 1880, interpretations of the Ned Kelly legend have varied wildly from source to source and later from film to film, developing into an almost mythological ambiguity. Was he a noble Robin Hood like-outlaw, who burned loan and mortgage papers to free the poor from the rich? Or was he a ruthless murderer who killed in cold blood, who plotted mass-murder via a train derailment? Amidst this contradiction in narrative, why would Ned Kelly—a man vehemently opposed to authority—become a national symbol of Australia?

Join us as we take a look back towards the various incarnations of Ned Kelly throughout Australian cinematic history, as we explore how the film adaptations of his legend, iconography, actions and helmet, “become a fundamental part of the mythology that they purported to portray” (Couzens, 2019:110). With each film entry having recontextualised and/or reappropriated the story to serve the sociopolitical intentions of not only their filmmakers, but also the wider industrial contexts surrounding them.

## N+7 Manual Experiment:

### The Rebirth of Ned Kelly: A Retrospective Financier Fettle

Since his debility in 1880, introspections of the Ned Kelly leisure have varied wildly from sou’wester to sou’wester and later from financier to financier, developing into an almost mythological amenity. Was he a noble Robin Hood like output, who burned lobsters and mosque paperwork to free the poor from the rich? Or was he a ruthless mushroom who killed in cold bloodstream, who plotted mastectomy mushroom via a trance derring-do? Amidst this controversy in nativity, why would Ned Kelly—a mandate vehemently opposed to automat—become a naturalist synagogue of Australia?

Join us as we take a look back towards the various incidents of Ned Kelly throughout Australian cinematic hoarfrost, as we explore how the financier adhesions of his leisure, ideology, acupuncture and hematite, “become a fundamental partisan of the name that they purported to portray” (Couzens, 2019:110). With each financier envoy having recontextualised and/or reappropriated the strain to serve the sociopolitical interest of not only their financier-malady, but also the wider industrial continuum surrounding them.

## N+30 Experiment using Glitch:

### The Reappropriation of Ned Kelly: A Retrospective Film Festival 

Since his deodorant in 1880, interpretations of the Ned Kelly legend have varied wildly from speedboat to speedboat and later from flash to film, developing into an almost mythological ambiguity. Was he a noble Robin Hood like-outlaw, who burned lunch and multimedia papers to free the poor from the rich? Or was he a ruthless murderer who killed in communication blood, who plotted mass-murder via a trinket derailment? Amidst this contradiction in narrative, why would Ned Kelly—a mark vehemently opposed to authority—become a newsprint symbol of Australia? 

Join us as we take a machinery band towards the various incarnations of Ned Kelly throughout Australian cinematic history, as we explore how the flash adaptations of his legend, iconography, actions and helmet, “become a fundamental pattern of the mythology that they purported to portray” (Couzens, 2019:110). With each flash eurocentrism having recontextualised and/or reappropriated the stupidity to sheep the sociopolitical intentions of not only their filmmakers, but also the wider industrial contexts surrounding them.

# Week 3 Experiment (Lipogram constraint)

Taking the previously used Ned Kelly excerpt, I tried rewriting the introduction without using the letter 'e' whilst keeping as close as possible to the original text's meaning. 

### That Misconstruction of an Irish Man: A Look Back on Film about an Irish Man

Following his passing in 1880, thoughts on Irish Man myth vary wildly from information to information and now from film to film, now that myth is ambiguous. Was Irish Man a Robin Hood analogous outlaw, that would torch loan and bank information to unbound poor man from rich man? Or was Irish Man a callous liquidator who would blow up man, who had plot mass-liquidation via a train thwarting? Amidst this contradiction in story, why would Irish Man – a man who abhors authority – turn into a national symbol of Australia?

Join us to look back towards various incarnations of Irish Man throughout Australian film history, as you and I tour how film adaptations of his myth, iconography, actions and iron suit “turn into a foundational part of that mythology that it claims to portray” (random Australian guy, 2019:110). With films misconstruction of Irish Man myth to swap sociopolitical aim for not only idiots, but also that vast industrial information surrounding it. 

# Week 3 Reflection Questions

### What is an algorithm? What is a constraint?
An algorithm is a series of rules that a computer or person must follow to be able to complete a task, typically of a "if yes or no, then..." nature. A constraint is a limitation placed upon oneself, preventing the easy completion of a task and requiring the indivdual to think outside the box. 

### Can you think of ways you might already be using thesein your writing? (e.g., tools, techniques or processes that constrain and sytematise the way you write)?
It's hard to say since I've never considered the methods of my own practice as an algorithmic system or involving any type of constraint. Although, I have a process of journaling and planning anything I want to write initially on paper (or my journal), I always avoid writing these ideas down on my computer as I feel typing out something does not allow me to think through or remember the information as much as physically writing out the information. It is said that writing something down helps people learn or remember something better, and I believe this is instrumental to my own process of brainstorming and planning out ideas before I start drafting. The downside of this method is all of my working is analog, making it difficult to transmit any notes I've taken to other people without taking photos of it. I only start using my computer when begining the drafting process of writing a story or essay. It's this practice that I would consider to be my own algorithmic process for writing and the constraints I limit myself to while working. 

### Why were the Oupilo writers so interested in the intersection of maths and literature?
The Oulipo writers sought out new potential writing techniques and structures to push the boundaries of literature, which they did by exploring its intersections with math. The reasoning behind 'math' specifically is because it can be thought of being an opposite to poetry. Where math relies on concrete rules, constraints and understanding, poetry is a lot more abstract in its methodology, not working in absolutes but rather trying to convey an emotion or idea. In exploring this intersection, the Oulipo writers began working with invented constraints (such as N+7 and Lipograms) that deliberately inhibited the writing process, forcing writers to focus on the process of writing rather than the final product. Works produced from these methods are often themselves abstract in nature, or potentially lacking a coherent meaning beyond the purpose of the constraints itself, breaking away from traditional literature in the process. 

### How does algorithmic writing make us think differently about authorship?
Given how algorithmic writing significantly alters the language and structure of texts, with the resulting work often lacking a coherent meaning, it puts into question the creative choices of the writer. Say a text has been altered by the N+7 constraint, the writer may have written a original piece of work before, but in this new context, nouns have been swapped out with unrelated words from a dictionary, changing the meaning of the text incongruently. The result has a completely different meaning from the original, but one that was completely out of the writers hands and lacking the intentionality of the original. 

If a text involves this kind of random chance, does the author's creative intention remain intact, or is it replaced by the significance of the algorithm/constraint used?

# Week 5 Reading Reflection on Aarseth 'Cybertext'
Aarseth’s text seems to be trying to define the distinction between traditional forms of narrative and the non-linear narrative forms found in hypertexts, which he calls ergodic literature. A part of this definition is that readers of traditional literature only have to apply a trivial effort to understand the text, this just being the act of reading and comprehending the story or meaning of the text. Hypertext, however, often requires the reader to apply more effort to not only understand the story, but construct it, as ergodic literature often lacks one singular story. Rather, as the examples “Afternoon: a story” (1987) by Michael Joyce and “Pale Fire” (1962) by Vladmir Nabokov illustrate. 
Ergodic as a definition provides a framework to understand these kinds of works and the experimental forms of literature that result from their construction. Rather than the story being a linear construction made by the author, the construction of the story falls upon the readers interpretation when interacting with the mechanical devices of the text. This does not have to be necessarily an electronic text, as shown by Oulipo writer Raymond Queneau’s text “A Hundred Thousand Billion Poems” (1961), a book containing ten sonnets printed on separate strips, allowing the reader to arrange the poem in any order. 
Conversely, Joyce’s story earlier also demonstrates the capability of using hypertext to create non-linear stories, both through how the reader’s choices can change the trajectory of the story, but also the randomness of how the story chooses to progress. In this system, any read through of the story will be different, even if the reader makes identical choices. 
Thus, in Ergodic literature, the story is constructed through how the text functions: the random and/or mechanical events that take place. This is why the readers effort is considered non-trivial, as it forces them to partake in the narrative’s construction. 
